I've
now standing here
and I've grown to love it here
but as my home and I don't want to leave
started with risky and then we took the
library the timing for a downtown
redevelopment is is right what we've
done so far with the plan has paid
dividends for the people that are here
the lights truly are on in Fort Dodge
Iowa I feel it would be detrimental to
not finish this plan we've only just
started and it's only because we came
together as a community people are the
lifeblood of any community they are the
builders the creators of its history its
tradition their work keeps the community
strong and their plans build its future
born from a vision of forward planning
our founders built structures with the
size and architecture to shape a
downtown landscape fulfilling their
vision of their own little Chicago
overcoming adversity through
determination and faith Fort Dodge was
built to blend an urban feel with a
small-town environment creating a unique
setting for a community to prosper we
are a small town relatively speaking
it's a small town community it's that
kind of trust and friendships that you
build in a small town but at the same
time we were built for a much bigger
population
downtown's are an indicator of Community
Health they reflect on the image of a
community and I think they're very
important in giving people an idea of
where a community is going I started a
bakery making cheesecake out of my home
in October of 2009 my business grew too
rapidly for me to be able to do it from
my home so I decided to open a retail
bakery I chose downtown because in all
of the places that I've ever lived
downtown as the heart of the city and
it's no different here in Fort Dodge
it's a beautiful area downtown Fort
Dodge has always been the heart of our
communities business district but the
success of its past could not ensure its
future down economies and unfortunate
turns of events have at times left
downtown Fort Dodge statement we looked
at downtown for dodges as a place that
was going to be in gradual decline we
didn't see hope
being someone who came to the downtown
area every day you it was hard to pick
up on the gradual erosion of the
downtown we were losing money every year
sales were still declining and we'd made
the conscious decision to close it up
with the business district of downtown
Fort Dodge in sharp decline a change had
to be made a strategy had to be put in
place and like the forward thinkers of
the past a plan was introduced to build
on the pride of our community to reshape
and revive the downtown area the
downtown plan that was developed was
developed by citizens along with the
facilitation by a consultant I think
they did a tremendous job the downtown
Fort Dodge revitalization plan includes
seven strategies with 34 steps focusing
on policy changes private investment
opportunities and public infrastructure
needs these items are part of a ten-year
plan and many of the policy changes have
already been completed private
investment is happening but the most
prominent features yet to come require
public support it's certainly important
that communities have a long-term plan
of how they're going to reinvest in
themselves more importantly it's about
making sure building a place that people
want to live in and want to invest in
adopting a theme of live-work-play the
grand strategy of the plan is threefold
to shrink the downtown core to redevelop
adjacent areas into core supporting uses
and improve accessibility to the core
and surrounding areas that support the
core my partners and I spent a lot of
time reviewing the plan and how it all
worked together and after spending a lot
of time with it we said yeah we
on board let's go downtown's provide a
lifestyle when they're healthy that you
find in more urban areas that young
people look for today if you look at a
lot of successful colleges around the
United States they have a neat unique
shop downtown area and that's the first
question a lot of potential employees
will ask is the community vital and is
it growing selling the community is more
important than selling the job I hope
the public sector realizes the
investment that Cargill and CJ and other
companies make their hoping for a
long-term sustainable community that
they can grow our businesses in the city
has acquired certain properties to make
them available for a catalyst project
like a rec center having a new rec
center downtown with the vibrant
downtown growing it will allow the
colleagues continue to grow there are
plans in place to put a major rec center
in the downtown which would be a great
attraction for people that you know kind
of work play live khaleeji events are
out there that some type of venue like
this is going to open the door
not only will we have you know over 500
to 800 athletes here but will have their
their family members too we went out in
the eating talking to locals finding
what the best restaurants are in the
here in town or enough thousands of non
Iowans coming to not only Iowa but to
Fort Dodge to compete in a national
organized demand the worst thing
communities can do is to do a plan and
set it aside and it's never referred to
again I think investing in this
community is a good play if we stop in
the middle we'll start to go back Fort
Dodge Iowa is a city built on the
planning vision and ingenuity of
previous generations now with the
downtown revitalization plan in place we
are on the threshold of building on the
pride of our past to join the effort to
move forward and create greater
possibilities in the heart of Fort Dodge
for the future of the entire community
you